da da da dee da so that super awesome
blue me make a show yeah
welcome to our mid-thirties Fisher
sleuth your profit mini-maker Show
episode six ever wanted to design your
own cool t-shirt or maybe wanted to put
your awesome doodle on a bunch of
different stuff like birthday cards
jackets or your backpack today we'll
show you how to do all of our super
simple screen printing let's go for the
screen tastic built we will need a
wooden frame from scratch or a photo
frame sheer fabric or screen printing
fabric or by a screen printing frame
pre-made from the art store fabric or
regular screen printing ink a strong
rubber squeegee removable pad on screen
filler or permanent Mod Podge a cool
design you want to put on stuff scissors
tape and finally something to put your
designs on so what's all the fuss about
anyways screen printing or serigraphy is
all about getting your design onto
something in the ink or paint using a
piece of fabric stretched tight across a
frame it's used for all sorts of things
from posters to t-shirts to remote
controls the drawing is transferred to a
fabric using a kind of glue that dries
and blocks up tiny holes in the fabric
only where your design isn't allowing
the ink to seep through the holes only
where it's needed reproducing your
design wherever you want again and again
if you don't have a premade screen it's
time to make one to correctly mount your
fabric tech one corner down pull tight
on the opposite corner and tack cap down
then staple along the side and repeat
around the edge constantly pulling and
tightening hammering and your staples
will make it extra tight the tighter it
is the easier it will be to work with
all right seal the corners edges and
bottom with waterproof tape and you
should be ready for the next step now to
pick out what you want to print small
text and thin lines are hard to get
right so make your design simple and
bold if it's a t-shirt you want people
to see it so go big but remember this
has to fit inside your screen cut your
design out on a piece of paper and lay
it over the bottom of the screen flipped
around so it's mirrored
once your design is in place and how you
want it carefully paint around all the
edges with screen filler using your
design as a negative stencil just be
sure you don't stick your paper to the
screen do note specialize screen fillers
have solvents you can use to remove the
design from the screen if you want
something else on it but if you're using
Mod Podge from the filler it's not gonna
come off so make sure it's exactly how
you want it let this dry for a bit do a
spot check for holes then you should be
ready to start printing this will get
messy so make sure and put down some
paper take your item to be printed and
secure it flat against your workspace if
it's a shirt make sure it's wrinkle free
and that you have some paper between the
front and back of the shirt in case it
bleeds through now carefully place the
screen on your item making sure to put
it right where you want your image to go
when you're ready put a big line of ink
along the top or side of the screen
using a squeegee gently drag some ink
across the screen to flood it then bring
the squeegee back to the start and drag
it firmly across in one smooth stroke to
push the ink through evenly this is kind
of tricky and it'll take some practice
but when you get it you'll be so proud
there is lots more you can do like high
quality graphics using light-sensitive
emulsion 2 or more colors using multiple
lined up screens or even pop up secret
ninja faces hi that's all we can fit
into a show remember to express yourself
don't be afraid to try new things and
get out there and make something
our fun
blah blah
yeah